we’ll be integrating the Machine
Learning model for Text Sentiment Analysis in our
webpage for prediction.
We would take the user input and predict the emotion
related to the text entered. Thus, the user is sending the
request to predict the sentiment and in return, the
emotions will be displayed. So, for example when a user
enters ‘It was a great day’, the result will be a Happy or
smiling emoji.

To process this request and make it reach the Python file
with API, an intermediary is used which is known as
AJAX.


AJAX helps in refreshing a part of the HTML page rather
than reloading the whole page again and again.

 we’ll be learning about AJAX. and how it can be
used to send requests and receive responses from HTML
pages.

When we search for something on a web browser and the
time when a web page is completely loaded:
● The browser sends a request.
● The server responds and sends back the
requested information as an HTML file.

these requests are processed by APIs we have
written using Flask. To render these pages APIs are used.
To call these APIs we’ll use AJAX today.

APIs:
An API (Application Programming Interface) is a software
intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each
other. They are written to make requests to get or send
some information from the server.


Types of Request:
The most common types of request methods are GET and
POST. In GET, the client (browser) sends a request to get
some data from the server. Whereas, in POST, the client
sends the data to the server.

What is AJAX?

AJAX stands for Asynchronous JavaScript And XML.

AJAX is not a programming language but it uses
JavaScript.

AJAX is used to send and receive data from HTML to
Python files. We’ll be using jQuery to create the AJAX call.

JQuery is a JavaScript Library. It uses CSS style
selectors to select elements of an HTML page such as
buttons, text inputs, etc, and uses AJAX to change the
state of these elements.

How is jQuery used?

jQuery is a JavaScript library. The purpose of jQuery is to
make it much easier to use JavaScript on websites.
jQuery is used to shorten the JavaScript code to
accomplish and wrap them into methods that you can call
with a single line of code.
Selectors are used to select one or more HTML elements
using jQuery. Once an element is selected then we can
perform various operations on that selected element using
AJAX.

“$” denotes that we are using a jQuery selector. It is
followed by the action to be performed on the HTML
element.
Inside selector, we give:
1. The element to be selected. For e.g., p stands for
paragraph. e.g. $(p)
2. Class selector by giving class name followed by ‘.’
.e.g. $(“.demo”)
3. Id selector by writing id of the HTML element
followed by #. e.g. $(“#demo”)